docs-partials/builder/virtualbox/common/CommConfig-not-required.mdx, before:

<!-- Code generated from the comments of the CommConfig struct in builder/virtualbox/common/comm_config.go; DO NOT EDIT MANUALLY -->

- `host_port_min` (int) - The minimum port to use for the Communicator port on the host machine which is forwarded
  to the SSH or WinRM port on the guest machine. By default this is 2222.

- `host_port_max` (int) - The maximum port to use for the Communicator port on the host machine which is forwarded
  to the SSH or WinRM port on the guest machine. Because Packer often runs in parallel,
  Packer will choose a randomly available port in this range to use as the
  host port. By default this is 4444.

- `skip_nat_mapping` (bool) - Defaults to false. When enabled, Packer
  does not setup forwarded port mapping for communicator (SSH or WinRM) requests and uses ssh_port or winrm_port
  on the host to communicate to the virtual machine.

- `ssh_listen_on_all_interfaces` (bool) - Defaults to false. When enabled, the ssh port forwarding will be set to listen on 0.0.0.0
  as opposed to 127.0.0.1

<!-- End of code generated from the comments of the CommConfig struct in builder/virtualbox/common/comm_config.go; -->

Commit message:

Changed SSHListenOnAllInterfaces to SSHListenAddress where the user can specify the address

docs-partials/builder/virtualbox/common/CommConfig-not-required.mdx, after:

<!-- Code generated from the comments of the CommConfig struct in builder/virtualbox/common/comm_config.go; DO NOT EDIT MANUALLY -->

- `host_port_min` (int) - The minimum port to use for the Communicator port on the host machine which is forwarded
  to the SSH or WinRM port on the guest machine. By default this is 2222.

- `host_port_max` (int) - The maximum port to use for the Communicator port on the host machine which is forwarded
  to the SSH or WinRM port on the guest machine. Because Packer often runs in parallel,
  Packer will choose a randomly available port in this range to use as the
  host port. By default this is 4444.

- `skip_nat_mapping` (bool) - Defaults to false. When enabled, Packer
  does not setup forwarded port mapping for communicator (SSH or WinRM) requests and uses ssh_port or winrm_port
  on the host to communicate to the virtual machine.

- `ssh_listen_address` (string) - The address where the SSH port forwarding will be set to listen on. This value defaults to `127.0.0.1`.

<!-- End of code generated from the comments of the CommConfig struct in builder/virtualbox/common/comm_config.go; -->
