website/source/docs/builders/virtualbox-ovf.html.markdown, before:

---
description: |
    This VirtualBox Packer builder is able to create VirtualBox virtual machines and
    export them in the OVF format, starting from an existing OVF/OVA (exported
    virtual machine image).
layout: docs
page_title: 'VirtualBox Builder (from an OVF/OVA)'
...

# VirtualBox Builder (from an OVF/OVA)

Type: `virtualbox-ovf`

This VirtualBox Packer builder is able to create
[VirtualBox](https://www.virtualbox.org/) virtual machines and export them in
the OVF format, starting from an existing OVF/OVA (exported virtual machine
image).

When exporting from VirtualBox make sure to choose OVF Version 2, since Version
1 is not compatible and will generate errors like this:

    ==> virtualbox-ovf: Progress state: VBOX_E_FILE_ERROR
    ==> virtualbox-ovf: VBoxManage: error: Appliance read failed
    ==> virtualbox-ovf: VBoxManage: error: Error reading "source.ova": element "Section" has no "type" attribute, line 21
    ==> virtualbox-ovf: VBoxManage: error: Details: code VBOX_E_FILE_ERROR (0x80bb0004), component Appliance, interface IAppliance
    ==> virtualbox-ovf: VBoxManage: error: Context: "int handleImportAppliance(HandlerArg*)" at line 304 of file VBoxManageAppliance.cpp

The builder builds a virtual machine by importing an existing OVF or OVA file.
It then boots this image, runs provisioners on this new VM, and exports that VM
to create the image. The imported machine is deleted prior to finishing the
build.

## Basic Example

Here is a basic example. This example is functional if you have an OVF matching
the settings here.

``` {.javascript}
{
  "type": "virtualbox-ovf",
  "source_path": "source.ovf",
  "ssh_username": "packer",
  "ssh_password": "packer",
  "shutdown_command": "echo 'packer' | sudo -S shutdown -P now"
}
```

It is important to add a `shutdown_command`. By default Packer halts the virtual
machine and the file system may not be sync'd. Thus, changes made in a
provisioner might not be saved.

## Configuration Reference

There are many configuration options available for the VirtualBox builder. They
are organized below into two categories: required and optional. Within each
category, the available options are alphabetized and described.

In addition to the options listed here, a
[communicator](/docs/templates/communicator.html) can be configured for this
builder.

### Required:

-   `source_path` (string) - The path to an OVF or OVA file that acts as the
    source of this build.

-   `ssh_username` (string) - The username to use to SSH into the machine once
    the OS is installed.

### Optional:

-   `boot_command` (array of strings) - This is an array of commands to type
    when the virtual machine is first booted. The goal of these commands should
    be to type just enough to initialize the operating system installer. Special
    keys can be typed as well, and are covered in the section below on the
    boot command. If this is not specified, it is assumed the installer will
    start itself.

-   `boot_wait` (string) - The time to wait after booting the initial virtual
    machine before typing the `boot_command`. The value of this should be
    a duration. Examples are "5s" and "1m30s" which will cause Packer to wait
    five seconds and one minute 30 seconds, respectively. If this isn't
    specified, the default is 10 seconds.

-   `export_opts` (array of strings) - Additional options to pass to the
    `VBoxManage export`. This can be useful for passing product information to
    include in the resulting appliance file.

-   `floppy_files` (array of strings) - A list of files to place onto a floppy
    disk that is attached when the VM is booted. This is most useful for
    unattended Windows installs, which look for an `Autounattend.xml` file on
    removable media. By default, no floppy will be attached. All files listed in
    this setting get placed into the root directory of the floppy and the floppy
    is attached as the first floppy device. Currently, no support exists for
    creating sub-directories on the floppy. Wildcard characters (\*, ?,
    and \[\]) are allowed. Directory names are also allowed, which will add all
    the files found in the directory to the floppy.

-   `format` (string) - Either "ovf" or "ova", this specifies the output format
    of the exported virtual machine. This defaults to "ovf".

-   `guest_additions_mode` (string) - The method by which guest additions are
    made available to the guest for installation. Valid options are "upload",
    "attach", or "disable". If the mode is "attach" the guest additions ISO will
    be attached as a CD device to the virtual machine. If the mode is "upload"
    the guest additions ISO will be uploaded to the path specified by
    `guest_additions_path`. The default value is "upload". If "disable" is used,
    guest additions won't be downloaded, either.

-   `guest_additions_path` (string) - The path on the guest virtual machine
    where the VirtualBox guest additions ISO will be uploaded. By default this
    is "VBoxGuestAdditions.iso" which should upload into the login directory of
    the user. This is a [configuration
    template](/docs/templates/configuration-templates.html) where the `Version`
    variable is replaced with the VirtualBox version.

-   `guest_additions_sha256` (string) - The SHA256 checksum of the guest
    additions ISO that will be uploaded to the guest VM. By default the
    checksums will be downloaded from the VirtualBox website, so this only needs
    to be set if you want to be explicit about the checksum.

-   `guest_additions_url` (string) - The URL to the guest additions ISO
    to upload. This can also be a file URL if the ISO is at a local path. By
    default the VirtualBox builder will go and download the proper guest
    additions ISO from the internet.

-   `headless` (boolean) - Packer defaults to building VirtualBox virtual
    machines by launching a GUI that shows the console of the machine
    being built. When this value is set to true, the machine will start without
    a console.

-   `http_directory` (string) - Path to a directory to serve using an
    HTTP server. The files in this directory will be available over HTTP that
    will be requestable from the virtual machine. This is useful for hosting
    kickstart files and so on. By default this is "", which means no HTTP server
    will be started. The address and port of the HTTP server will be available
    as variables in `boot_command`. This is covered in more detail below.

-   `http_port_min` and `http_port_max` (integer) - These are the minimum and
    maximum port to use for the HTTP server started to serve the
    `http_directory`. Because Packer often runs in parallel, Packer will choose
    a randomly available port in this range to run the HTTP server. If you want
    to force the HTTP server to be on one port, make this minimum and maximum
    port the same. By default the values are 8000 and 9000, respectively.

-   `import_flags` (array of strings) - Additional flags to pass to
    `VBoxManage import`. This can be used to add additional command-line flags
    such as `--eula-accept` to accept a EULA in the OVF.

-   `import_opts` (string) - Additional options to pass to the
    `VBoxManage import`. This can be useful for passing "keepallmacs" or
    "keepnatmacs" options for existing ovf images.

-   `output_directory` (string) - This is the path to the directory where the
    resulting virtual machine will be created. This may be relative or absolute.
    If relative, the path is relative to the working directory when `packer`
    is executed. This directory must not exist or be empty prior to running
    the builder. By default this is "output-BUILDNAME" where "BUILDNAME" is the
    name of the build.

-   `shutdown_command` (string) - The command to use to gracefully shut down the
    machine once all the provisioning is done. By default this is an empty
    string, which tells Packer to just forcefully shut down the machine unless a
    shutdown command takes place inside script so this may safely be omitted. If
    one or more scripts require a reboot it is suggested to leave this blank
    since reboots may fail and specify the final shutdown command in your
    last script.

-   `shutdown_timeout` (string) - The amount of time to wait after executing the
    `shutdown_command` for the virtual machine to actually shut down. If it
    doesn't shut down in this time, it is an error. By default, the timeout is
    "5m", or five minutes.

-   `ssh_host_port_min` and `ssh_host_port_max` (integer) - The minimum and
    maximum port to use for the SSH port on the host machine which is forwarded
    to the SSH port on the guest machine. Because Packer often runs in parallel,
    Packer will choose a randomly available port in this range to use as the
    host port.

-   `ssh_skip_nat_mapping` (boolean) - Defaults to false. When enabled, Packer
    does not setup forwarded port mapping for SSH requests and uses `ssh_port`
    on the host to communicate to the virtual machine

-   `vboxmanage` (array of array of strings) - Custom `VBoxManage` commands to
    execute in order to further customize the virtual machine being created. The
    value of this is an array of commands to execute. The commands are executed
    in the order defined in the template. For each command, the command is
    defined itself as an array of strings, where each string represents a single
    argument on the command-line to `VBoxManage` (but excluding
    `VBoxManage` itself). Each arg is treated as a [configuration
    template](/docs/templates/configuration-templates.html), where the `Name`
    variable is replaced with the VM name. More details on how to use
    `VBoxManage` are below.

-   `vboxmanage_post` (array of array of strings) - Identical to `vboxmanage`,
    except that it is run after the virtual machine is shutdown, and before the
    virtual machine is exported.

-   `virtualbox_version_file` (string) - The path within the virtual machine to
    upload a file that contains the VirtualBox version that was used to create
    the machine. This information can be useful for provisioning. By default
    this is ".vbox\_version", which will generally be upload it into the
    home directory.

-   `vm_name` (string) - This is the name of the virtual machine when it is
    imported as well as the name of the OVF file when the virtual machine
    is exported. By default this is "packer-BUILDNAME", where "BUILDNAME" is the
    name of the build.

## Guest Additions

Packer will automatically download the proper guest additions for the version of
VirtualBox that is running and upload those guest additions into the virtual
machine so that provisioners can easily install them.

Packer downloads the guest additions from the official VirtualBox website, and
verifies the file with the official checksums released by VirtualBox.

After the virtual machine is up and the operating system is installed, Packer
uploads the guest additions into the virtual machine. The path where they are
uploaded is controllable by `guest_additions_path`, and defaults to
"VBoxGuestAdditions.iso". Without an absolute path, it is uploaded to the home
directory of the SSH user.

## VBoxManage Commands

In order to perform extra customization of the virtual machine, a template can
define extra calls to `VBoxManage` to perform.
[VBoxManage](https://www.virtualbox.org/manual/ch08.html) is the command-line
interface to VirtualBox where you can completely control VirtualBox. It can be
used to do things such as set RAM, CPUs, etc.

Extra VBoxManage commands are defined in the template in the `vboxmanage`
section. An example is shown below that sets the memory and number of CPUs
within the virtual machine:

``` {.javascript}
{
  "vboxmanage": [
    ["modifyvm", "{{.Name}}", "--memory", "1024"],
    ["modifyvm", "{{.Name}}", "--cpus", "2"]
  ]
}
```

The value of `vboxmanage` is an array of commands to execute. These commands are
executed in the order defined. So in the above example, the memory will be set
followed by the CPUs.

Each command itself is an array of strings, where each string is an argument to
`VBoxManage`. Each argument is treated as a [configuration
template](/docs/templates/configuration-templates.html). The only available
variable is `Name` which is replaced with the unique name of the VM, which is
required for many VBoxManage calls.

Commit message:

Closes #2637 - VRDP support for the virtualbox plugin
Signed-off-by: Ian Duffy <ian@ianduffy.ie>

website/source/docs/builders/virtualbox-ovf.html.markdown, after:

---
description: |
    This VirtualBox Packer builder is able to create VirtualBox virtual machines and
    export them in the OVF format, starting from an existing OVF/OVA (exported
    virtual machine image).
layout: docs
page_title: 'VirtualBox Builder (from an OVF/OVA)'
...

# VirtualBox Builder (from an OVF/OVA)

Type: `virtualbox-ovf`

This VirtualBox Packer builder is able to create
[VirtualBox](https://www.virtualbox.org/) virtual machines and export them in
the OVF format, starting from an existing OVF/OVA (exported virtual machine
image).

When exporting from VirtualBox make sure to choose OVF Version 2, since Version
1 is not compatible and will generate errors like this:

    ==> virtualbox-ovf: Progress state: VBOX_E_FILE_ERROR
    ==> virtualbox-ovf: VBoxManage: error: Appliance read failed
    ==> virtualbox-ovf: VBoxManage: error: Error reading "source.ova": element "Section" has no "type" attribute, line 21
    ==> virtualbox-ovf: VBoxManage: error: Details: code VBOX_E_FILE_ERROR (0x80bb0004), component Appliance, interface IAppliance
    ==> virtualbox-ovf: VBoxManage: error: Context: "int handleImportAppliance(HandlerArg*)" at line 304 of file VBoxManageAppliance.cpp

The builder builds a virtual machine by importing an existing OVF or OVA file.
It then boots this image, runs provisioners on this new VM, and exports that VM
to create the image. The imported machine is deleted prior to finishing the
build.

## Basic Example

Here is a basic example. This example is functional if you have an OVF matching
the settings here.

``` {.javascript}
{
  "type": "virtualbox-ovf",
  "source_path": "source.ovf",
  "ssh_username": "packer",
  "ssh_password": "packer",
  "shutdown_command": "echo 'packer' | sudo -S shutdown -P now"
}
```

It is important to add a `shutdown_command`. By default Packer halts the virtual
machine and the file system may not be sync'd. Thus, changes made in a
provisioner might not be saved.

## Configuration Reference

There are many configuration options available for the VirtualBox builder. They
are organized below into two categories: required and optional. Within each
category, the available options are alphabetized and described.

In addition to the options listed here, a
[communicator](/docs/templates/communicator.html) can be configured for this
builder.

### Required:

-   `source_path` (string) - The path to an OVF or OVA file that acts as the
    source of this build.

-   `ssh_username` (string) - The username to use to SSH into the machine once
    the OS is installed.

### Optional:

-   `boot_command` (array of strings) - This is an array of commands to type
    when the virtual machine is first booted. The goal of these commands should
    be to type just enough to initialize the operating system installer. Special
    keys can be typed as well, and are covered in the section below on the
    boot command. If this is not specified, it is assumed the installer will
    start itself.

-   `boot_wait` (string) - The time to wait after booting the initial virtual
    machine before typing the `boot_command`. The value of this should be
    a duration. Examples are "5s" and "1m30s" which will cause Packer to wait
    five seconds and one minute 30 seconds, respectively. If this isn't
    specified, the default is 10 seconds.

-   `export_opts` (array of strings) - Additional options to pass to the
    `VBoxManage export`. This can be useful for passing product information to
    include in the resulting appliance file.

-   `floppy_files` (array of strings) - A list of files to place onto a floppy
    disk that is attached when the VM is booted. This is most useful for
    unattended Windows installs, which look for an `Autounattend.xml` file on
    removable media. By default, no floppy will be attached. All files listed in
    this setting get placed into the root directory of the floppy and the floppy
    is attached as the first floppy device. Currently, no support exists for
    creating sub-directories on the floppy. Wildcard characters (\*, ?,
    and \[\]) are allowed. Directory names are also allowed, which will add all
    the files found in the directory to the floppy.

-   `format` (string) - Either "ovf" or "ova", this specifies the output format
    of the exported virtual machine. This defaults to "ovf".

-   `guest_additions_mode` (string) - The method by which guest additions are
    made available to the guest for installation. Valid options are "upload",
    "attach", or "disable". If the mode is "attach" the guest additions ISO will
    be attached as a CD device to the virtual machine. If the mode is "upload"
    the guest additions ISO will be uploaded to the path specified by
    `guest_additions_path`. The default value is "upload". If "disable" is used,
    guest additions won't be downloaded, either.

-   `guest_additions_path` (string) - The path on the guest virtual machine
    where the VirtualBox guest additions ISO will be uploaded. By default this
    is "VBoxGuestAdditions.iso" which should upload into the login directory of
    the user. This is a [configuration
    template](/docs/templates/configuration-templates.html) where the `Version`
    variable is replaced with the VirtualBox version.

-   `guest_additions_sha256` (string) - The SHA256 checksum of the guest
    additions ISO that will be uploaded to the guest VM. By default the
    checksums will be downloaded from the VirtualBox website, so this only needs
    to be set if you want to be explicit about the checksum.

-   `guest_additions_url` (string) - The URL to the guest additions ISO
    to upload. This can also be a file URL if the ISO is at a local path. By
    default the VirtualBox builder will go and download the proper guest
    additions ISO from the internet.

-   `headless` (boolean) - Packer defaults to building VirtualBox virtual
    machines by launching a GUI that shows the console of the machine
    being built. When this value is set to true, the machine will start without
    a console.

-   `http_directory` (string) - Path to a directory to serve using an
    HTTP server. The files in this directory will be available over HTTP that
    will be requestable from the virtual machine. This is useful for hosting
    kickstart files and so on. By default this is "", which means no HTTP server
    will be started. The address and port of the HTTP server will be available
    as variables in `boot_command`. This is covered in more detail below.

-   `http_port_min` and `http_port_max` (integer) - These are the minimum and
    maximum port to use for the HTTP server started to serve the
    `http_directory`. Because Packer often runs in parallel, Packer will choose
    a randomly available port in this range to run the HTTP server. If you want
    to force the HTTP server to be on one port, make this minimum and maximum
    port the same. By default the values are 8000 and 9000, respectively.

-   `import_flags` (array of strings) - Additional flags to pass to
    `VBoxManage import`. This can be used to add additional command-line flags
    such as `--eula-accept` to accept a EULA in the OVF.

-   `import_opts` (string) - Additional options to pass to the
    `VBoxManage import`. This can be useful for passing "keepallmacs" or
    "keepnatmacs" options for existing ovf images.

-   `output_directory` (string) - This is the path to the directory where the
    resulting virtual machine will be created. This may be relative or absolute.
    If relative, the path is relative to the working directory when `packer`
    is executed. This directory must not exist or be empty prior to running
    the builder. By default this is "output-BUILDNAME" where "BUILDNAME" is the
    name of the build.

-   `shutdown_command` (string) - The command to use to gracefully shut down the
    machine once all the provisioning is done. By default this is an empty
    string, which tells Packer to just forcefully shut down the machine unless a
    shutdown command takes place inside script so this may safely be omitted. If
    one or more scripts require a reboot it is suggested to leave this blank
    since reboots may fail and specify the final shutdown command in your
    last script.

-   `shutdown_timeout` (string) - The amount of time to wait after executing the
    `shutdown_command` for the virtual machine to actually shut down. If it
    doesn't shut down in this time, it is an error. By default, the timeout is
    "5m", or five minutes.

-   `ssh_host_port_min` and `ssh_host_port_max` (integer) - The minimum and
    maximum port to use for the SSH port on the host machine which is forwarded
    to the SSH port on the guest machine. Because Packer often runs in parallel,
    Packer will choose a randomly available port in this range to use as the
    host port.

-   `ssh_skip_nat_mapping` (boolean) - Defaults to false. When enabled, Packer
    does not setup forwarded port mapping for SSH requests and uses `ssh_port`
    on the host to communicate to the virtual machine

-   `vboxmanage` (array of array of strings) - Custom `VBoxManage` commands to
    execute in order to further customize the virtual machine being created. The
    value of this is an array of commands to execute. The commands are executed
    in the order defined in the template. For each command, the command is
    defined itself as an array of strings, where each string represents a single
    argument on the command-line to `VBoxManage` (but excluding
    `VBoxManage` itself). Each arg is treated as a [configuration
    template](/docs/templates/configuration-templates.html), where the `Name`
    variable is replaced with the VM name. More details on how to use
    `VBoxManage` are below.

-   `vboxmanage_post` (array of array of strings) - Identical to `vboxmanage`,
    except that it is run after the virtual machine is shutdown, and before the
    virtual machine is exported.

-   `virtualbox_version_file` (string) - The path within the virtual machine to
    upload a file that contains the VirtualBox version that was used to create
    the machine. This information can be useful for provisioning. By default
    this is ".vbox\_version", which will generally be upload it into the
    home directory.

-   `vm_name` (string) - This is the name of the virtual machine when it is
    imported as well as the name of the OVF file when the virtual machine
    is exported. By default this is "packer-BUILDNAME", where "BUILDNAME" is the
    name of the build.

-   `vrdp_port_min` and `vrdp_port_max` (integer) - The minimum and maximum port
    to use for VRDP access to the virtual machine. Packer uses a randomly chosen
    port in this range that appears available. By default this is 5900 to 6000.
    The minimum and maximum ports are inclusive.

## Guest Additions

Packer will automatically download the proper guest additions for the version of
VirtualBox that is running and upload those guest additions into the virtual
machine so that provisioners can easily install them.

Packer downloads the guest additions from the official VirtualBox website, and
verifies the file with the official checksums released by VirtualBox.

After the virtual machine is up and the operating system is installed, Packer
uploads the guest additions into the virtual machine. The path where they are
uploaded is controllable by `guest_additions_path`, and defaults to
"VBoxGuestAdditions.iso". Without an absolute path, it is uploaded to the home
directory of the SSH user.

## VBoxManage Commands

In order to perform extra customization of the virtual machine, a template can
define extra calls to `VBoxManage` to perform.
[VBoxManage](https://www.virtualbox.org/manual/ch08.html) is the command-line
interface to VirtualBox where you can completely control VirtualBox. It can be
used to do things such as set RAM, CPUs, etc.

Extra VBoxManage commands are defined in the template in the `vboxmanage`
section. An example is shown below that sets the memory and number of CPUs
within the virtual machine:

``` {.javascript}
{
  "vboxmanage": [
    ["modifyvm", "{{.Name}}", "--memory", "1024"],
    ["modifyvm", "{{.Name}}", "--cpus", "2"]
  ]
}
```

The value of `vboxmanage` is an array of commands to execute. These commands are
executed in the order defined. So in the above example, the memory will be set
followed by the CPUs.

Each command itself is an array of strings, where each string is an argument to
`VBoxManage`. Each argument is treated as a [configuration
template](/docs/templates/configuration-templates.html). The only available
variable is `Name` which is replaced with the unique name of the VM, which is
required for many VBoxManage calls.
