website/source/docs/builders/vmware.html.markdown, before:

---
layout: "docs"
---

# VMware Builder

Type: `vmware`

The VMware builder is able to create VMware virtual machines. It currently
only supports building the virtual machines using
[VMware Fusion](http://www.vmware.com/products/fusion/overview.html), but
support for Windows and other VMware products is forthcoming.

The builder builds a virtual machine by creating a new virtual machine
from scratch, booting it, installing an OS, provisioning software within
the OS, then shutting it down. The result of the VMware builder is a directory
containing all the files necessary to run the virtual machine.

## Basic Example

Here is a basic example. This example is not functional. It will start the
OS installer but then fail because we don't provide the preseed file for
Ubuntu to self-install. Still, the example serves to show the basic configuration:

<pre class="prettyprint">
{
  "type": "vmware",
  "iso_url": "http://releases.ubuntu.com/12.04/ubuntu-12.04.2-server-amd64.iso",
  "iso_md5": "af5f788aee1b32c4b2634734309cc9e9",
  "ssh_username": "packer",
  "ssh_wait_timeout": "30s"
}
</pre>

## Configuration Reference

There are many configuration options available for the VMware builder.
They are organized below into two categories: required and optional. Within
each category, the available options are alphabetized and described.

Required:

* `iso_md5` (string) - The MD5 checksum for the OS ISO file. Because ISO
  files are so large, this is required and Packer will verify it prior
  to booting a virtual machine with the ISO attached.

* `iso_url` (string) - A URL to the ISO containing the installation image.
  This URL can be either an HTTP URL or a file URL (or path to a file).
  If this is an HTTP URL, Packer will download it and cache it between
  runs.

* `ssh_username` (string) - The username to use to SSH into the machine
  once the OS is installed.

Optional:

* `boot_command` (array of strings) - This is an array of commands to type
  when the virtual machine is firsted booted. The goal of these commands should
  be to type just enough to initialize the operating system installer. Special
  keys can be typed as well, and are covered in the section below on the boot
  command. If this is not specified, it is assumed the installer will start
  itself.

* `boot_wait` (string) - The time to wait after booting the initial virtual
  machine before typing the `boot_command`. The value of this should be
  a duration. Examples are "5s" and "1m30s" which will cause Packer to wait
  five seconds and one minute 30 seconds, respectively. If this isn't specified,
  the default is 10 seconds.

* `disk_size` (int) - The size of the hard disk for the VM in megabytes.
  The builder uses expandable, not fixed-size virtual hard disks, so the
  actual file representing the disk will not use the full size unless it is full.
  By default this is set to 40,000 (40 GB).

* `guest_os_type` (string) - The guest OS type being installed. This will be
  set in the VMware VMX. By default this is "other". By specifying a more specific
  OS type, VMware may perform some optimizations or virtual hardware changes
  to better support the operating system running in the virtual machine.

* `http_directory` (string) - Path to a directory to serve using an HTTP
  server. The files in this directory will be available over HTTP that will
  be requestable from the virtual machine. This is useful for hosting
  kickstart files and so on. By default this is "", which means no HTTP
  server will be started. The address and port of the HTTP server will be
  available as variables in `boot_command`. This is covered in more detail
  below.

* `http_port_min` and `http_port_max` (int) - These are the minimum and
  maximum port to use for the HTTP server started to serve the `http_directory`.
  Because Packer often runs in parallel, Packer will choose a randomly available
  port in this range to run the HTTP server. If you want to force the HTTP
  server to be on one port, make this minimum and maximum port the same.
  By default the values are 8000 and 9000, respectively.

* `output_directory` (string) - This is the path to the directory where the
  resulting virtual machine will be created. This may be relative or absolute.
  If relative, the path is relative to the working directory when `packer`
  is executed. By default this is "vmware". This directory must not exist
  or be empty prior to running the builder.

* `shutdown_command` (string) - The command to use to gracefully shut down
  the machine once all the provisioning is done. By default this is an empty
  string, which tells Packer to just forcefully shut down the machine.

* `shutdown_timeout` (string) - The amount of time to wait after executing
  the `shutdown_command` for the virtual machine to actually shut down.
  If it doesn't shut down in this time, it is an error. By default, the timeout
  is "5m", or five minutes.

* `ssh_password` (string) - The password for `ssh_username` to use to
  authenticate with SSH. By default this is the empty string.

* `ssh_port` (int) - The port that SSH will listen on within the virtual
  machine. By default this is 22.

* `ssh_wait_timeout` (string) - The duration to wait for SSH to become
  available. By default this is "20m", or 20 minutes. Note that this should
  be quite long since the timer begins as soon as virtual machine is booted.

* `tools_upload_flavor` (string) - The flavor of the VMware Tools ISO to
  upload into the VM. Valid values are "darwin", "linux", and "windows".
  By default, this is empty, which means VMware tools won't be uploaded.

* `tools_upload_path` (string) - The path in the VM to upload the VMware
  tools. This only takes effect if `tools_upload_flavor` is non-empty.
  This is a [configuration template](/docs/templates/configuration-templates.html)
  that has a single valid variable: `Flavor`, which will be the value of
  `tools_upload_flavor`. By default the upload path is set to
  `{{.Flavor}}.iso`.

* `vm_name` (string) - This is the name of the VMX file for the new virtual
  machine, without the file extension. By default this is "packer".

* `vmdk_name` (string) - The filename of the virtual disk that'll be created,
  without the extension. This defaults to "packer".

* `vmx_data` (object, string keys and string values) - Arbitrary key/values
  to enter into the virtual machine VMX file. This is for advanced users
  who want to set properties such as memory, CPU, etc.

* `vnc_port_min` and `vnc_port_max` (int) - The minimum and maximum port to
  use for VNC access to the virtual machine. The builder uses VNC to type
  the initial `boot_command`. Because Packer generally runs in parallel, Packer
  uses a randomly chosen port in this range that appears available. By default
  this is 5900 to 6000. The minimum and maximum ports are inclusive.

## Boot Command

The `boot_command` configuration is very important: it specifies the keys
to type when the virtual machine is first booted in order to start the
OS installer. This command is typed after `boot_wait`, which gives the
virtual machine some time to actually load the ISO.

As documented above, the `boot_command` is an array of strings. The
strings are all typed in sequence. It is an array only to improve readability
within the template.

The boot command is "typed" character for character over a VNC connection
to the machine, simulating a human actually typing the keyboard. There are
a set of special keys available. If these are in your boot command, they
will be replaced by the proper key:

* `<enter>` and `<return>` - Simulates an actual "enter" or "return" keypress.

* `<esc>` - Simulates pressing the escape key.

* `<tab>` - Simulates pressing the tab key.

* `<wait>` - Adds a one second pause before sending any additional keys. This
  is useful if you have to generally wait for the UI to update before typing more.

In addition to the special keys, each command to type is treated as a
[configuration template](/docs/templates/configuration-templates.html).
The available variables are:

* `HTTPIP` and `HTTPPort` - The IP and port, respectively of an HTTP server
  that is started serving the directory specified by the `http_directory`
  configuration parameter. If `http_directory` isn't specified, these will
  be blank!

Example boot command. This is actually a working boot command used to start
an Ubuntu 12.04 installer:

<pre class="prettyprint">
[
  "&lt;esc&gt;&lt;esc&gt;&lt;enter&gt;&lt;wait&gt;",
  "/install/vmlinuz noapic ",
  "preseed/url=http://{{ .HTTPIP }}:{{ .HTTPPort }}/preseed.cfg ",
  "debian-installer=en_US auto locale=en_US kbd-chooser/method=us ",
  "hostname={{ .Name }} ",
  "fb=false debconf/frontend=noninteractive ",
  "keyboard-configuration/modelcode=SKIP keyboard-configuration/layout=USA ",
  "keyboard-configuration/variant=USA console-setup/ask_detect=false ",
  "initrd=/install/initrd.gz -- &lt;enter&gt;"
]
</pre>

Commit message:

website: update website with latest vm_name default changes

website/source/docs/builders/vmware.html.markdown, after:

---
layout: "docs"
---

# VMware Builder

Type: `vmware`

The VMware builder is able to create VMware virtual machines. It currently
only supports building the virtual machines using
[VMware Fusion](http://www.vmware.com/products/fusion/overview.html), but
support for Windows and other VMware products is forthcoming.

The builder builds a virtual machine by creating a new virtual machine
from scratch, booting it, installing an OS, provisioning software within
the OS, then shutting it down. The result of the VMware builder is a directory
containing all the files necessary to run the virtual machine.

## Basic Example

Here is a basic example. This example is not functional. It will start the
OS installer but then fail because we don't provide the preseed file for
Ubuntu to self-install. Still, the example serves to show the basic configuration:

<pre class="prettyprint">
{
  "type": "vmware",
  "iso_url": "http://releases.ubuntu.com/12.04/ubuntu-12.04.2-server-amd64.iso",
  "iso_md5": "af5f788aee1b32c4b2634734309cc9e9",
  "ssh_username": "packer",
  "ssh_wait_timeout": "30s"
}
</pre>

## Configuration Reference

There are many configuration options available for the VMware builder.
They are organized below into two categories: required and optional. Within
each category, the available options are alphabetized and described.

Required:

* `iso_md5` (string) - The MD5 checksum for the OS ISO file. Because ISO
  files are so large, this is required and Packer will verify it prior
  to booting a virtual machine with the ISO attached.

* `iso_url` (string) - A URL to the ISO containing the installation image.
  This URL can be either an HTTP URL or a file URL (or path to a file).
  If this is an HTTP URL, Packer will download it and cache it between
  runs.

* `ssh_username` (string) - The username to use to SSH into the machine
  once the OS is installed.

Optional:

* `boot_command` (array of strings) - This is an array of commands to type
  when the virtual machine is firsted booted. The goal of these commands should
  be to type just enough to initialize the operating system installer. Special
  keys can be typed as well, and are covered in the section below on the boot
  command. If this is not specified, it is assumed the installer will start
  itself.

* `boot_wait` (string) - The time to wait after booting the initial virtual
  machine before typing the `boot_command`. The value of this should be
  a duration. Examples are "5s" and "1m30s" which will cause Packer to wait
  five seconds and one minute 30 seconds, respectively. If this isn't specified,
  the default is 10 seconds.

* `disk_size` (int) - The size of the hard disk for the VM in megabytes.
  The builder uses expandable, not fixed-size virtual hard disks, so the
  actual file representing the disk will not use the full size unless it is full.
  By default this is set to 40,000 (40 GB).

* `guest_os_type` (string) - The guest OS type being installed. This will be
  set in the VMware VMX. By default this is "other". By specifying a more specific
  OS type, VMware may perform some optimizations or virtual hardware changes
  to better support the operating system running in the virtual machine.

* `http_directory` (string) - Path to a directory to serve using an HTTP
  server. The files in this directory will be available over HTTP that will
  be requestable from the virtual machine. This is useful for hosting
  kickstart files and so on. By default this is "", which means no HTTP
  server will be started. The address and port of the HTTP server will be
  available as variables in `boot_command`. This is covered in more detail
  below.

* `http_port_min` and `http_port_max` (int) - These are the minimum and
  maximum port to use for the HTTP server started to serve the `http_directory`.
  Because Packer often runs in parallel, Packer will choose a randomly available
  port in this range to run the HTTP server. If you want to force the HTTP
  server to be on one port, make this minimum and maximum port the same.
  By default the values are 8000 and 9000, respectively.

* `output_directory` (string) - This is the path to the directory where the
  resulting virtual machine will be created. This may be relative or absolute.
  If relative, the path is relative to the working directory when `packer`
  is executed. This directory must not exist or be empty prior to running the builder.
  By default this is "output-BUILDNAME" where "BUILDNAME" is the name
  of the build.

* `shutdown_command` (string) - The command to use to gracefully shut down
  the machine once all the provisioning is done. By default this is an empty
  string, which tells Packer to just forcefully shut down the machine.

* `shutdown_timeout` (string) - The amount of time to wait after executing
  the `shutdown_command` for the virtual machine to actually shut down.
  If it doesn't shut down in this time, it is an error. By default, the timeout
  is "5m", or five minutes.

* `ssh_password` (string) - The password for `ssh_username` to use to
  authenticate with SSH. By default this is the empty string.

* `ssh_port` (int) - The port that SSH will listen on within the virtual
  machine. By default this is 22.

* `ssh_wait_timeout` (string) - The duration to wait for SSH to become
  available. By default this is "20m", or 20 minutes. Note that this should
  be quite long since the timer begins as soon as virtual machine is booted.

* `tools_upload_flavor` (string) - The flavor of the VMware Tools ISO to
  upload into the VM. Valid values are "darwin", "linux", and "windows".
  By default, this is empty, which means VMware tools won't be uploaded.

* `tools_upload_path` (string) - The path in the VM to upload the VMware
  tools. This only takes effect if `tools_upload_flavor` is non-empty.
  This is a [configuration template](/docs/templates/configuration-templates.html)
  that has a single valid variable: `Flavor`, which will be the value of
  `tools_upload_flavor`. By default the upload path is set to
  `{{.Flavor}}.iso`.

* `vm_name` (string) - This is the name of the VMX file for the new virtual
  machine, without the file extension. By default this is "packer-BUILDNAME",
  where "BUILDNAME" is the name of the build.

* `vmdk_name` (string) - The filename of the virtual disk that'll be created,
  without the extension. This is a This defaults to "packer".

* `vmx_data` (object, string keys and string values) - Arbitrary key/values
  to enter into the virtual machine VMX file. This is for advanced users
  who want to set properties such as memory, CPU, etc.

* `vnc_port_min` and `vnc_port_max` (int) - The minimum and maximum port to
  use for VNC access to the virtual machine. The builder uses VNC to type
  the initial `boot_command`. Because Packer generally runs in parallel, Packer
  uses a randomly chosen port in this range that appears available. By default
  this is 5900 to 6000. The minimum and maximum ports are inclusive.

## Boot Command

The `boot_command` configuration is very important: it specifies the keys
to type when the virtual machine is first booted in order to start the
OS installer. This command is typed after `boot_wait`, which gives the
virtual machine some time to actually load the ISO.

As documented above, the `boot_command` is an array of strings. The
strings are all typed in sequence. It is an array only to improve readability
within the template.

The boot command is "typed" character for character over a VNC connection
to the machine, simulating a human actually typing the keyboard. There are
a set of special keys available. If these are in your boot command, they
will be replaced by the proper key:

* `<enter>` and `<return>` - Simulates an actual "enter" or "return" keypress.

* `<esc>` - Simulates pressing the escape key.

* `<tab>` - Simulates pressing the tab key.

* `<wait>` - Adds a one second pause before sending any additional keys. This
  is useful if you have to generally wait for the UI to update before typing more.

In addition to the special keys, each command to type is treated as a
[configuration template](/docs/templates/configuration-templates.html).
The available variables are:

* `HTTPIP` and `HTTPPort` - The IP and port, respectively of an HTTP server
  that is started serving the directory specified by the `http_directory`
  configuration parameter. If `http_directory` isn't specified, these will
  be blank!

Example boot command. This is actually a working boot command used to start
an Ubuntu 12.04 installer:

<pre class="prettyprint">
[
  "&lt;esc&gt;&lt;esc&gt;&lt;enter&gt;&lt;wait&gt;",
  "/install/vmlinuz noapic ",
  "preseed/url=http://{{ .HTTPIP }}:{{ .HTTPPort }}/preseed.cfg ",
  "debian-installer=en_US auto locale=en_US kbd-chooser/method=us ",
  "hostname={{ .Name }} ",
  "fb=false debconf/frontend=noninteractive ",
  "keyboard-configuration/modelcode=SKIP keyboard-configuration/layout=USA ",
  "keyboard-configuration/variant=USA console-setup/ask_detect=false ",
  "initrd=/install/initrd.gz -- &lt;enter&gt;"
]
</pre>
